Rob Mcneill: Good morning.
Rob Mcneill: Morning. How you doing
DEEPA RAM: good? Oh, good!
Rob Mcneill: I've got my my cameras off because I use my laptop to ride on.
DEEPA RAM: Yup! Is everyone here, and wait for another 2 to 3 min, and then we start.
DEEPA RAM: and if you're not ready with your what you call your
DEEPA RAM: the worksheets just download from the moodle.
DEEPA RAM: I think it's written track, for on the top strike it over the right track. 5. Okay, because last climate it was practical.
DEEPA RAM: so forgot to change it. This promise to
DEEPA RAM: Yes, yes, yes.
DEEPA RAM: so it's just building some models. Now, since you guys are sitting online.
DEEPA RAM: if you want to build it on your own, then you have to use that more view.
DEEPA RAM: So I can just give you update you.
DEEPA RAM: I can update you the details of this more view
DEEPA RAM: if if you want to do it, but otherwise I will be making the models for you and I'll be showing it on the camera.
DEEPA RAM: I can. You can have a look at that, and then draw
DEEPA RAM: the structure. So it's more about drawing the structures identifying the different
DEEPA RAM: and things like that. So
DEEPA RAM: some of you may not need my help at all, because the questions are all day on the worksheet.
DEEPA RAM: Most of you will be able to answer those questions without seeing the structures also.
DEEPA RAM: But for those of you who are not.
DEEPA RAM: you know. Okay, with the okay part, then I can. I'll show you the structures, too. Okay, so it's all about. You know, you working on your own basically
DEEPA RAM: But I've got
molecular model set here, which
DEEPA RAM: I hope you can see. Oh.
I've changed my
DEEPA RAM: video virtual background
to
DEEPA RAM: and blow my background. Yes, so I hope you can see it now.
DEEPA RAM: Yeah. So this is the key that I would be using
DEEPA RAM: It's got all those recall
DEEPA RAM: the ball sticks, and both in there
DEEPA RAM: she can see
DEEPA RAM: right. So this is what i'll be using. I'll be making the models with these balls and sticks, and then i'll be showing it to you
DEEPA RAM: with which you will be able to answer your question.
nina handler: Sorry to interrupt, but I can't say the option to submit. This is just the later. I can't say the option to submit the practical.
DEEPA RAM: I did it now, so it should be able to see. Now, thank you.
DEEPA RAM: Now for those who are not in this class.
DEEPA RAM: There are 2 of you who don't one. Yeah, one for us. Don't belong to this class. But yeah, so you can finish it and send it to me by email or something. That will be better. Okay, rather than adding, You let me see if I can add you in there, and then you can submit
DEEPA RAM: otherwise. Just finish it off and send it to me before 1230. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: And for others you should be able to see. Now.
DEEPA RAM: can you just refresh and have a look at that? I thought I had made it visible
DEEPA RAM: with the right date.
DEEPA RAM: Can someone have a look and let me know?
DEEPA RAM: You still can't see it.
DEEPA RAM: Okay, Give me a minute.
DEEPA RAM: Yes, yes, yes.
DEEPA RAM: I've changed the page and everything, but I didn't make it visible.
DEEPA RAM: My bet
DEEPA RAM: done now
DEEPA RAM: Now
DEEPA RAM: what I've put in the chat now is
DEEPA RAM: like Link, where you can go and build your own models if you wish to.
DEEPA RAM: Yes, so that way you can work at your own case, and I mean. Once you build a model, it's a bit of a it's a bit of a working both. So once you build a model, you will get an idea of how that looks like in 3 dimension.
DEEPA RAM: Okay. So what I've been doing is I'll be going on to the worksheet first, and then we'll look at the question.
DEEPA RAM: I'll build a model and show it to you. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: most of the questions, even without seeing the more you should be able to answer, because you know the theory part of it.
Hmm.
DEEPA RAM: So this is how that mobile software looks like. So you can actually
DEEPA RAM: put in any element from here into that structure you can build your own structure. You can put the bones. You can put the elements there and then you see that in 3 dimension in here.
DEEPA RAM: Okay, so that's a more you.
DEEPA RAM: I've already updated that in the model. So if you want, you can just give it. Try. With this link which I put up here.
DEEPA RAM: Okay, Anyway, I'm going on to the worksheets.
DEEPA RAM: Are you able to see the worksheets?
DEEPA RAM: So this is what they have.
DEEPA RAM: The discussion question is something which you can work on your own.
DEEPA RAM: Okay.
DEEPA RAM: so are the following objects: Some molecules, chiral or not. So what I mean by Kyle.
DEEPA RAM: 2 objects you've. You've got the complete
DEEPA RAM: lecture for this. So you know what Chiral and a card on me right?
DEEPA RAM: So Kyle is when there are 2 objects which are not superimposable.
DEEPA RAM: and which
DEEPA RAM: do not have a plane of symmetry. So that's how you know something is Kyle
DEEPA RAM: right? That do not have a plan of symmetry.
DEEPA RAM: It is something which has the plane of symmetry
DEEPA RAM: all right, so it looks symmetric.
DEEPA RAM: It has a plan of symmetry.
DEEPA RAM: and therefore it's not title. So not Kiral, is what we call as a.
DEEPA RAM: So you can just quickly work out those 3 questions in question number one.
DEEPA RAM: Once you finish that it'll move on to question 2
DEEPA RAM: done with question number one.
DEEPA RAM: Now we move on to question number 2:
DEEPA RAM: What's the difference between a studio center and a Kyoto molecule.
DEEPA RAM: So these are things like, you know. You can work out on your own.
DEEPA RAM: I can't give you the answer for these.
DEEPA RAM: You've already had the lecture for this. And you know what the difference between studio and
DEEPA RAM: so data center is basically a carbon center where there are 4 different connections onto it. All 4 different atoms. A group of items connected
DEEPA RAM: and chirality is, or a molecule.
DEEPA RAM: it could be mainly due to the presence of a studio center.
DEEPA RAM: So there is a studio center, like if there are 4 different groups connected to the carbon center, then
DEEPA RAM: normally, it will not have a plane of symmetry.
DEEPA RAM: right?
DEEPA RAM: All good move to the next one.
DEEPA RAM: I know most of you might have already answered these questions.
DEEPA RAM: What's the relationship between a kernel molecule and in
DEEPA RAM: so Kyle molecule is again a single molecule which does not have any molecule which does not have a plane of symmetry, or which has a studio center. Therefore it does not have a plan of symmetry.
DEEPA RAM: I guess that's for a molecule
DEEPA RAM: Enantiomerism is for
DEEPA RAM: 2 molecules together. Okay. So it's a pair of Cairo substances.
DEEPA RAM: So it's a pair of chiral molecules which has
DEEPA RAM: middle of a major relationship between them.
DEEPA RAM: So a molecule, which is Cairo with its mirror image, which is Also, Cairo
DEEPA RAM: makes a pair of enzymes.
Okay.
DEEPA RAM: move to the next.
DEEPA RAM: So for this one
DEEPA RAM: and the right hand box or a picture of the model you have constructed. So how it can appear to have one angle of 90.
DEEPA RAM: Okay, and you know, it says, do not draw a edge and dash with structure. Okay. So they just asking you to put lines for the bonds Just normalize would be fine.
DEEPA RAM: Now, as it appears to have 90 degree, we know that. So
DEEPA RAM: this is what it is. Okay, as you can see, this is what it is
DEEPA RAM: right.
It's
just
DEEPA RAM: meeting right?
DEEPA RAM: Right? So you know that the angle for meeting is
DEEPA RAM: tetrahedral. What's the angle of a title?
DEEPA RAM: One or 9.5 isn't it. That's the angle for to try it. You'll see and all that maintain a stretch or he'll. But it's just asking you of your question, like you know. How would it appear if it was drawn in 90 degrees? So you can just put it as a 90 degree
DEEPA RAM: at right angles. How that would be like
DEEPA RAM: It's just a weird question, just to
DEEPA RAM: no to just to
DEEPA RAM: yeah to work out your imagination how it would be like
DEEPA RAM: your visualization. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: and 5 and 6 Also, I can answer it for you to answer. I've only given the answer just now. But yeah, work it out.
DEEPA RAM: Done
DEEPA RAM: what you next.
DEEPA RAM: So you know the name of the geometry right? The name of the jump is, what do you provide?
DEEPA RAM: Yeah, whether it is linear or trigonal, or to try it or whatever it is. Okay.
yeah.
DEEPA RAM: the next one is to build a model of chloro methane.
DEEPA RAM: Retail. Chloride is a common name. Chloro meeting is a.
DEEPA RAM: So here you have to draw
DEEPA RAM: a which and dashboard structure
DEEPA RAM: that best illustrate the geometry about the central item in the other box draw another picture of the model from a different angle. So one is only given for you. So this is how the wedge and dash, which looks like
DEEPA RAM: So, which is a particular one.
DEEPA RAM: and the dashboard is the
DEEPA RAM: the one to the one behind. Okay. So this chlorine is seeking out the
DEEPA RAM: out of the plane and
DEEPA RAM: the hydrogen that that hydrogen is actually behind the the the plan. Okay. So when we are representing a 3 dimensional molecule on a 2 dimensional plane, we need to put them as we just in dash, which is just to make
others
DEEPA RAM: understand those are viewing it. Understand that Well, this atom is not on the plane, but sticking out or below.
DEEPA RAM: I mean so behind the plane.
DEEPA RAM: so you can draw the same
DEEPA RAM: one here this
DEEPA RAM: and now the 2, now the 2 atoms as
DEEPA RAM: like.
DEEPA RAM: Oh, you know, if you turn it around, how would you draw it?
DEEPA RAM: So maybe this hydrogen will come to the front. Just go to the back. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: So put in a different way. Here
DEEPA RAM: are you able to see me on camera, or do you want me to
DEEPA RAM: stop, share and
DEEPA RAM: show you on camera on?
Rob Mcneill: No, we can see.
DEEPA RAM: So one of the hydrogen's, every place with a green color, which is a chlorine. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: So still the geometry remains the same. Everything remains the same except that
DEEPA RAM: one hydrogen is replaced by glory.
DEEPA RAM: You can answer question 8 also
DEEPA RAM: done.
Yeah.
DEEPA RAM: Question. 9.
DEEPA RAM: In the Ch. 3 seal are the 3 hydrogen items equivalent. So what do you think of these 3 hydrogen items connected to the car.
DEEPA RAM: So what do you mean by equivalent?
DEEPA RAM: So to which means that, do they have identical environment with respect to the other items adjacent to themselves.
DEEPA RAM: So it's all to do with the connectivity. Okay. So we know that all the 3 hydrogen's are connected to the same carbon.
DEEPA RAM: We just connect you to the chlorine
DEEPA RAM: right?
DEEPA RAM: So which means that all the 3 hydrogen's are in
DEEPA RAM: an equal, and beyond it doesn't it
DEEPA RAM: because they are all connected to the same carbon, so they are all equally distant from the chlorine, and affected by chlorine in the same way.
DEEPA RAM: Right?
DEEPA RAM: So that's what it will mean.
DEEPA RAM: Oh, good move to next one.
DEEPA RAM: Now the 2 boxes below draw the vet and dash which pictures of See See h, 2 be our Cl. From different angular viewpoints. Okay, just make the model for you.
DEEPA RAM: So one more hydrogen is replaced by a Brahmin.
DEEPA RAM: That's what it is. It's the same digital structure as you can see. Right
DEEPA RAM: a hydrogen. So there are 2 hydrogen's. Now
DEEPA RAM: these 2 are the hydrogen's right.
DEEPA RAM: and then we have a chlorine and to have a prominent.
DEEPA RAM: It's the same structure.
DEEPA RAM: the same geometry, right?
DEEPA RAM: But maybe you can keep it like this control. So when you keep it like this
DEEPA RAM: right?
DEEPA RAM: You find that. So if you keep it this way, you find that this atom.
DEEPA RAM: the Brahmin and the hydrogen are on the same plane of carbon.
DEEPA RAM: But this hydrogen is to the front, and this is behind. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: So there's one way of putting it. Then roll it over and draw another way. So now
DEEPA RAM: the Brahmin
DEEPA RAM: Sorry. Now, though. Yeah. Now the chlorine and the hydrogen are on the same plane as that of that that of carbon.
DEEPA RAM: Okay. So for the when it's on the same plane you draw the single lines for these 2 bonds. Okay, with the chlorine and with the hydrogen
DEEPA RAM: and
DEEPA RAM: one hydrogen is the front. So you put a thick which for that
DEEPA RAM: and one the the bromine is behind. So therefore you put a dash which for that.
DEEPA RAM: Okay, so draw 2 different
new points
DEEPA RAM: and also answer question 11, so that you can answer on your own.
DEEPA RAM: Yeah, a question 12 Also, you can answer on your own.
DEEPA RAM: Now we don't want, and now we know what equivalent
DEEPA RAM: atoms
DEEPA RAM: done.
DEEPA RAM: Move to next one.
DEEPA RAM: C 2 hit 6. So by the time you finish answering that i'll make it to hit 6.
DEEPA RAM: Yup. So that is C 2 hit 6
DEEPA RAM: right.
DEEPA RAM: You can put it in any way you like.
DEEPA RAM: You would like this.
DEEPA RAM: The 2 carbons
DEEPA RAM: all right. So the 2 carbons wanted to each other, and the right 3 hydrogens with each carbon.
DEEPA RAM: Now, special thing about the single one is that you can actually rotate it. Make any possible structure
DEEPA RAM: all right, but they are all 81 structures, because you can rotate it, and bring it back to the same thing.
DEEPA RAM: Right? So free rotation is possible about the carbon-carbon, single bond.
DEEPA RAM: So when you're putting it as a veg or d with structure.
DEEPA RAM: The 2 carbons right.
DEEPA RAM: the 2 hydrogen's on the top.
DEEPA RAM: They are on the same plan. Those 4 items are on the same line.
DEEPA RAM: The hydrogen Here is the franchise.
DEEPA RAM: The hydrogen here is also to the front.
DEEPA RAM: and there are 2 high regions behind.
Okay.
DEEPA RAM: Lewis structure is how you see this. Okay?
DEEPA RAM: So you write the carbon, the single bond between them and the hydrogen, and all that
DEEPA RAM: content structure is putting this together one end together with the carbon, so C, H. 3,
DEEPA RAM: and then this together as one. See H. 3, right? So you just you don't like, draw any lines in between you. Just write C. H, 3, C. H. 3.
DEEPA RAM: That's it. Okay?
DEEPA RAM: And then it can answer the remaining questions, too.
DEEPA RAM: should be able to answer 14 and 15
DEEPA RAM: done
DEEPA RAM: move to next.
DEEPA RAM: Also write the Epc name.
DEEPA RAM: and moving on to the next page. So we need to replace one of the hydrogen. So it's a chlorine. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: i'm going to do that
check.
DEEPA RAM: So that's it
DEEPA RAM: right?
DEEPA RAM: So I've taken away one hydrogen and put a clone in place. That's the only thing. So one carbon has got 3 hydrogen's. The second carbon is got 2 hydrogen's and a chloride.
So this is what it looks like.
Okay.
DEEPA RAM: Now, the question is all the 2 carbons equivalent.
DEEPA RAM: So one carbon is got 3 hydrogen's, the other carbon has got 2 hydrogens and a chlorine.
DEEPA RAM: Yeah. So you can answer. Accordingly.
DEEPA RAM: you're not asked to draw the model. You just asked to build the model. So I've built it for you. Okay, just have to answer these questions
DEEPA RAM: and on the 5 hydrogen items that you will in think about it.
DEEPA RAM: so that are 5 hydrogen in total, isn't it. So these 3 are connected to the same carbon. These 2 are connected to the same carbon.
DEEPA RAM: But
DEEPA RAM: if the carbons are not equivalent, then think about it how it's going to be.
DEEPA RAM: and also right the I apc name
DEEPA RAM: done
DEEPA RAM: right that you.
DEEPA RAM: if you rotate the hydrogen atoms to a different position by turning about the central carbon-carbon bond
DEEPA RAM: to get different structural Isomer. So i'm going to turn it around for you.
DEEPA RAM: Okay. So i'm going to turn it around.
DEEPA RAM: They can actually come back to the same structure. Alright, there's no change in the structure at all.
DEEPA RAM: Yeah, See that can come back to a strange, same structure. It's in it.
DEEPA RAM: But do you get a different structure. What do you mean by structuralize them? Or a constitutional Isomer?
DEEPA RAM: Optional is summer or constitutional license.
DEEPA RAM: You have a different connectivity.
DEEPA RAM: If the connections are still the same. Then it is the same thing.
DEEPA RAM: It's not a different Isomer. Okay, yeah.
DEEPA RAM: okay, we'll watch the next one
DEEPA RAM: built all possible models for.
DEEPA RAM: So now we've got 2 chlorines. Okay, Which means that I have to replace one more hydrogen with another chlorine.
DEEPA RAM: Okay?
DEEPA RAM: And what are the different ways They can do it. So there are 2 carbons. There should be 4 hydrogens and 2 chlorines.
DEEPA RAM: So
DEEPA RAM: what it can do is, I can
DEEPA RAM: have
DEEPA RAM: a chlorine
DEEPA RAM: been a new chlorine input on the same carbon
DEEPA RAM: as we have the old one. Okay, which is this carbon
DEEPA RAM: or I can put a chlorine on the
DEEPA RAM: other carbon. Okay, so i'll show you
DEEPA RAM: one of that first here.
DEEPA RAM: So that is one, right?
DEEPA RAM: So if put the the the the first hydrogen is got all the 3 height. So our first carbon is what all the 3 hydrogen's in it. And this carbon has got 2 chlorines and heights. Okay, so that's one way of putting it right.
DEEPA RAM: Not the way is
DEEPA RAM: to go
DEEPA RAM: one of the clone from here
DEEPA RAM: and
DEEPA RAM: put it on the all the cop
DEEPA RAM: right?
DEEPA RAM: So that is 2 different connectivity, as you can see
DEEPA RAM: fine.
DEEPA RAM: so you can draw the content structure
DEEPA RAM: of the 2 Isomers
DEEPA RAM: and also the ups and names.
Okay.
DEEPA RAM: So both chlorines on the same carbon, and
DEEPA RAM: each cl run on different car.
DEEPA RAM: The next one, C, 4, H. 10,
DEEPA RAM: Okay, 4 carbons in a row. Each carbon is tetrahedral.
DEEPA RAM: It's got 4 connections.
DEEPA RAM: so the carbon, the first carbon.
DEEPA RAM: It's got 3 hydrogen's.
DEEPA RAM: and the fourth board is connected to the second carbon.
DEEPA RAM: and that carbon is got 2 hydrogen's, and
DEEPA RAM: the bond is connected to the next carbon, and this carbon has got
DEEPA RAM: 2 hydrogen's
DEEPA RAM: connected to the next car and the last car, and again, it's got 3 hydrogen's. Okay, simple structure.
DEEPA RAM: You can find that all the carbons are having a tetrahedral
DEEPA RAM: with the one on 9.5 degree angle.
DEEPA RAM: because it's all single born between the conference.
DEEPA RAM: Okay, so this is one way of doing, say for H 10,
DEEPA RAM: What can be another way?
DEEPA RAM: You can have 3 carbons in a row. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: and then take away that last carbon. Okay, I'm going to take away the last carbon with its hydrogen. Okay?
DEEPA RAM: And then i'm going to take away a hydrogen from the middle carbon here.
DEEPA RAM: and i'm going to put that carbon in here so that creates a branch as you can see.
DEEPA RAM: All right.
DEEPA RAM: So 3 carbons in a row, and then this middle carbon has got a branch
DEEPA RAM: with the C. H. 3.
DEEPA RAM: How would you name this
DEEPA RAM: so it's a 3 carbon with a branch.
DEEPA RAM: C. H. 3 meet highly connected to the second carbon, so you can name it. Also, you can draw the schedule structure. It's just this. Okay, the skeletal structure is this.
DEEPA RAM: But with the carbon and hydrogen
DEEPA RAM: and code instructive will be the Ch. 3. Then the Ch. With the Ch. 3, and then a. C. H. 3. All right. So
DEEPA RAM: do it.
DEEPA RAM: The appropriate answer, the questions, the appropriate way.
DEEPA RAM: So I've shown you both. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: Is another structure possible? No, that's the maximum branching possible for
DEEPA RAM: see? Full
DEEPA RAM: done.
DEEPA RAM: A:
DEEPA RAM: So just to
DEEPA RAM: now
DEEPA RAM: we've been asked to construct a model of meeting
DEEPA RAM: and also more of a. So I've done 2 meetings. Basically, okay.
DEEPA RAM: right?
DEEPA RAM: So can the member may just be superimposed on the original or anything.
DEEPA RAM: So if you put on that.
DEEPA RAM: the parts match so superimposition means
DEEPA RAM: whether the parts match
DEEPA RAM: when you put it in one form so like this is how they will see to remove you. So you mentioned that there is a mirror here. So this is exactly how they will see this number.
DEEPA RAM: and just like that if I take one put on top of the other the parts. Match. Okay, Sorry.
DEEPA RAM: The pots match right?
DEEPA RAM: Oh, good
DEEPA RAM: question. Number 26 Does meeting contain a plan of symmetry. What do you think is the test of plan of symmetry?
DEEPA RAM: Can it be cut across
DEEPA RAM: the Adams? So the one of the to
DEEPA RAM: the one behind and the carbon in the middle. If you cut it off, you get to exact house.
DEEPA RAM: Basically it's got 4 planes of symmetry.
DEEPA RAM: And is it, Cairo? Answer your question.
DEEPA RAM: So by the time you and so those 2 questions i'll make the next one for you. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: So these questions you don't have to explain. Okay, you just have to say.
DEEPA RAM: but they Yes, I know.
DEEPA RAM: Well.
DEEPA RAM: but it's okay. Just yes, so no questions.
DEEPA RAM: Now, that is chloro meeting
DEEPA RAM: so same story.
DEEPA RAM: the portsmatch.
DEEPA RAM: because there is 2 kind of symmetry.
DEEPA RAM: the spac, and cut it despite and cut it.
DEEPA RAM: and feel supreme on the on the original
DEEPA RAM: it's it's like
So answer question 2829, and 30
DEEPA RAM: by then I would make the next one.
DEEPA RAM: So look at this now
DEEPA RAM: still has a plan of symmetry. Okay, so cottage it crawls the orange, the green and the common of the black
DEEPA RAM: through through the center. Okay, those 2 bones and the carbon
DEEPA RAM: still has a plan of symmetry.
DEEPA RAM: a good 2 hydrogen on either side for both of them.
DEEPA RAM: Okay.
DEEPA RAM: Second: so 31 32
DEEPA RAM: and 33,
DEEPA RAM: not to product no rain.
DEEPA RAM: so i'm trying to keep the messages. It's 4 different things connected. So you you You can imagine how that's going to be like, so i'll try to put them as
tip to
and correct.
DEEPA RAM: Yeah. So say this.
DEEPA RAM: Okay.
DEEPA RAM: I've put them as my roommate, as you mentioned. There. There's a mirror here right in the center.
DEEPA RAM: So this is how you will see them as
DEEPA RAM: I decide on whether they would superimpose or not. So i'm going to keep one on top of the other one.
DEEPA RAM: and see if the pots match or not.
DEEPA RAM: and decide whether it has a plan of symmetry or not.
DEEPA RAM: What we can see?
DEEPA RAM: Okay.
DEEPA RAM: So you can answer 34, 35 and 36, and also 37
DEEPA RAM: it's the cover of the center. It's got 4 different items a group of atoms connected to it.
Okay.
DEEPA RAM: Now let me make this model. By the time you've finished other questions.
DEEPA RAM: So it's you turn to all. So there should be 4 carbons.
DEEPA RAM: I think 4 carbons.
DEEPA RAM: and then on the second car. But there should be no H.
DEEPA RAM: Right. So oxygen is this red? Okay?
DEEPA RAM: So i'm going to fix on the second carbon, which is this carbon. I'm going to fix an option
DEEPA RAM: with a hydrogen.
DEEPA RAM: but oxygen with the hydrogen. I can't. You can see here.
DEEPA RAM: all right.
DEEPA RAM: So carbon number one.
DEEPA RAM: which is this one
DEEPA RAM: right?
DEEPA RAM: Carbon number 2 is this one
DEEPA RAM: you want to see? It's common number 2
DEEPA RAM: right.
DEEPA RAM: and that is, got an oxygen that carbon is connected to an oxygen with a hydrogen.
DEEPA RAM: Okay, so it's carbon number 2
DEEPA RAM: with
DEEPA RAM: an oxygen.
DEEPA RAM: and to it. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: and then you have good cover. Number 3 and carbon number 4
DEEPA RAM: bye.
DEEPA RAM: The rest is that should all be filled with higher hydrogen, which i'm not doing.
DEEPA RAM: You know that they are all
DEEPA RAM: so. Second, carbon will have a. No. H:
Okay.
DEEPA RAM: It's what I is.
Okay?
DEEPA RAM: Oh, good
DEEPA RAM: Hope. You can see it in detail.
DEEPA RAM: So this is a second call.
DEEPA RAM: and it has got that oxygen and her addition to it.
Okay.
DEEPA RAM: Now, when you are drawing
DEEPA RAM: the bench and dash, which
DEEPA RAM: structure of but 10 to all.
DEEPA RAM: just concentrate on this carbon. So the carbon having the okay.
DEEPA RAM: Okay.
DEEPA RAM: So carbon having the O,
DEEPA RAM: what are the connections on that carbon
DEEPA RAM: the carbon has got to. Oh, h connected to it
DEEPA RAM: a hydrogen connected to it.
DEEPA RAM: The whole of this card, which is any tile part connected to it. We just see h, 2, C. H, 3, okay.
DEEPA RAM: and a meat tile connected to it. See h, 3. So there's a. C. H. 3, that is, a. C. H. 3, that is a no hedge, and to hydrogen connected to that carbon
DEEPA RAM: She can just
DEEPA RAM: draw that carbon.
DEEPA RAM: Put the 4 bonds around it, where to our single lines and the other 2 are veg line, which a dash which lines okay.
DEEPA RAM: And then on those 4 of them. You can put them as whole
DEEPA RAM: like. Oh, h.
DEEPA RAM: h.
DEEPA RAM: C, h, 2, c, h, 3, and C. H 3.
DEEPA RAM: I don't mind if you draw it this way also.
DEEPA RAM: but
DEEPA RAM: that will be an easy way to draw it.
DEEPA RAM: So then it's You'll be able to draw them in a room. Age also.
DEEPA RAM: so mirror image should look exactly like a mirror image of the one you have drawn on the left hand side.
Okay.
DEEPA RAM: So draw the left one first, and then, looking at that, draw the my roommate on the right box.
DEEPA RAM: If you're good enough, and drawing in more view, you can go ahead
DEEPA RAM: and then crop and put them in Asia.
DEEPA RAM: Not the way of doing it.
DEEPA RAM: Okay.
DEEPA RAM: And the second one there is 2 bromo, butane. So instead of the oh, it is a broom. That's the only difference.
DEEPA RAM: Okay, a Brahmin in place of the oh.
DEEPA RAM: so you get a similar kind of a.
DEEPA RAM: a, a, an original and a.
DEEPA RAM: Yeah, so.
DEEPA RAM: And it's showing that
DEEPA RAM: can give you 5 min for that. You will take 5 min to do it.
DEEPA RAM: So take your time control.
DEEPA RAM: I will not disturb you for 5 min.
DEEPA RAM: Done
DEEPA RAM: one to the next.
DEEPA RAM: Okay. So just moving on to the next one
DEEPA RAM: to promote it one also. Let me just make it. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: It's how the molecule looks like
DEEPA RAM: it's. It can means it is 2 carbons. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: the first carbon is this one?
DEEPA RAM: Okay.
DEEPA RAM: we just got an okay connected to it, and 2 hydrogen's.
DEEPA RAM: The other carbon has got a promin with 2 hydrogen.
DEEPA RAM: You can also keep it like this.
DEEPA RAM: and you can also find
DEEPA RAM: plane of symmetry.
DEEPA RAM: Okay.
DEEPA RAM: you find a studio center.
DEEPA RAM: This carbon has got 2 hydrogens. Now the carbon also has got 2 hydrogen.
DEEPA RAM: So now we can draw the structure
DEEPA RAM: and
DEEPA RAM: see whether you find a studio center or not.
DEEPA RAM: and draw the mirror image.
DEEPA RAM: Yes, if you have completed and submitted, you can leave the meeting no problem. Well, mark your attendance.
DEEPA RAM: Okay, All good.
DEEPA RAM: And they say.
DEEPA RAM: No, we are not comparing at all. There is no question of comparison
DEEPA RAM: they just join.
DEEPA RAM: They tend to all it's
DEEPA RAM: to prom and butane the marimage.
DEEPA RAM: And how many studio centers are present, just the number of studio centers in each. Of them.
DEEPA RAM: Okay, that's it.
DEEPA RAM: Question 42. Okay. Let me check it.
DEEPA RAM: Just question 42 42. Okay. For the coming questions
DEEPA RAM: at the molecules Carrier. Just comparing the mirror images.
DEEPA RAM: Okay.
DEEPA RAM: the original and the mirror image
DEEPA RAM: go on to the next question.
DEEPA RAM: built the following molecule, and then my roommate.
DEEPA RAM: 2 copies.
DEEPA RAM: It should be to and to promise. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: Okay, that's it.
Okay.
DEEPA RAM: So how many studio centers are present is the only called Kiral. Does it contain a plan of symmetry. You can answer all those questions. I'm not going to help you with anything. Okay.
DEEPA RAM: You've done so many questions now. So you know exactly what? What it is. I'm. Showing you the different
DEEPA RAM: from different angle.
DEEPA RAM: Essentially.
DEEPA RAM: as you can see it's like this.
DEEPA RAM: Okay.
DEEPA RAM: and it run.
DEEPA RAM: and again turn it around.
DEEPA RAM: Yes, yes, you only have to talk about.
DEEPA RAM: Okay
DEEPA RAM: done.
DEEPA RAM: We can. Now we can answer the rest of the questions.
DEEPA RAM: I don't think we have.
DEEPA RAM: Yeah, that's all. But that'd be finished.
DEEPA RAM: Do you have any questions or anything?
DEEPA RAM: And if you don't have any questions, you can just leave the meeting, and you can
DEEPA RAM: submit the work.
DEEPA RAM: but make sure that you submit before
DEEPA RAM: 1230, because you don't have time. After that you will be.
You will be applied a late penalty if you sub it up to that.
DEEPA RAM: Okay, so make sure that you stop it before 1230.
DEEPA RAM: You've got plenty of time.
Rob Mcneill: Thanks.
DEEPA RAM: See you
DEEPA RAM: not those who are in here. So how? Justin? Why, Sonicole.
DEEPA RAM: Tim, do you have any questions? If not, you can leave no problem.
DEEPA RAM: all good. So please submit before 1230. Make sure that you do that so that you don't
DEEPA RAM: be given any light penalties. Okay.
beautiful.
DEEPA RAM: So, Nicole, are you fine? Just send it to me after you finish the work. Okay.